How would you feel if I told you you can
create this map in minutes? Stay till
the end of the video to see exactly how
I did it. So, today we're going to be
looking at high top- down tile sets.
This is going to be a fun video cuz
you're going to be able to create a full
map. I'm going to be covering how to
create the tile sets, how to export
them, and how to import them to go do
pretty easily. So, let's get right into
it. So the first thing we're going to do
is go to the map tools and to create
tile set high top down. So this might
seem overwhelming at first, but it's
pretty easy to handle. So the first
things we're going to see are the
different tiles we're going to have in
our tile set. So the higher elevation
tile, the transition tile, and the lower
elevation tile. What does this mean? So
in a tile set you have a top tile and a
lower tile or let's say basically your
main tile and your secondary tiles
and then the transition which will be
like a wall or something around that.
Right? Then we have the outline, shading
and details like we have in most of our
tools which we can select of course. We
can do different outlines or we can do
lineless. We can do flat shading up to
high detailed shading. We can keep it
basic for now. We can do low detail to
highly detailed. We can keep it low for
now. And let's do single color outline.
So next up we have the transition size.
And this is what this is for. So you
here you can choose none. And when you
choose none, you lose the transition
tile text box cuz you're not going to
use it. And then you have 0.25 tiles,
which is going to be a pretty small
wall. And then you have 0.5, which is
like the standard wall you see in most
games.
And finally, we have one tile walls,
which are pretty big walls, but this is
still in beta. So, it's not perfect yet.
It's still in the works. So, let's keep
it 0.5. And then we have tile size. For
tile size, we have 16x 16 and 32x 32.
We're going to keep it 16x 16 for now.
And then I'll show you 32x32 so you can
see both. Now the next setting we have
is tacet adherence.
So tacet adherence that you can read
here increase tet adherence for more
consistent tile set at the cost of
quality. So the more tile set adherence
you have the more it's going to follow
the shape of a standard tile set with
the standard corners etc. Freedom also
changes this. So the more freedom
the less is going to follow that
standard
square tile set shape and the less
freedom the more it's going to follow
it. Also one thing to note is that the
tile set adherence setting if you have a
tile set up here as an in initial image
or as a reference tile for the higher
elevation tile transition tile and lower
elevation tiles.
it will try to look more like those
tiles. Next up, we have the target
palette which we can use no palette, our
color palette which will be here or the
current image if we have one. So let's
try for the higher elevation tile. Let's
try going with grass. For the transition
description, let's keep it as rocks. And
for the lower elevation tile, let's do
dirt. So we can have a grass and dirt
towel set. And let's just click
generate. As you can see, I was in a
32x32 project,
but as as soon as you click generate, it
makes the correct canvas size and it
starts making the image in that canvas
size. And as you can see, it's
generating all the tiles and then it's
going to merge them all together and
give you a tile set just as you're
seeing it right now. happening live.
And there we have our grass with the
rock walls and the dirt. We have a full
tile set. Now,
what if we want to use one of these
tiles
and generate extra tiles besides those,
right? We could always select the grass
tile and let's put it as the higher
elevation tile. And let's keep that as
the higher elevation tile. Then we can
do rocks as transition description
again. And then maybe we can do water
for the lower elevation tile. We can
maybe change the transition size to
0.25.
And now it's going to use this grass
tile and make newer rock tiles and new
water tiles. So let's click generate.
And there you have it. We have the grass
with the water and it's still using the
same grass tile as you can see. And the
wall is smaller, right? So now you have
two different tile sets with the same
grass tiles
but different side tiles. You could
basically make different environments
with the same grass and basically have
more consistency across your game.
Before we move on to exporting tiles,
let's try 32x 32 tiles. I'm going to try
maybe sand as the higher elevation tile
description.
I'm going with none as transition size.
And I'm going with water as lower
elevation. So let's make a small beach
tile set. I'm going to keep the tile set
adherence at 100 or 101. tile strength
at 10, which is the default.
And let's click generate. As you can
see, now it made it a 256x 256 image
instead of the 128x 128 we had before
because the tiles are bigger, twice the
size. And there we have our sand with
water tile set and just two word
prompts. So you can do 16x6 or 32x 32.
And now let's move on to exporting the
tile sets. So when you are at the create
tile set window here at the bottom you
can see the export as tile set button.
So when you click that you will get a
couple options for the target layout. If
you click the dropown you can export it
as a tile set wang which will export it
as a JSON file. You can export it as a
tile set 15 which uses 15 tiles and then
you can do a 3x3 which is a go dot
specific template which has I think 43
tiles but in this case we're going to do
tile set 15 and you can also open it as
a sprite just to preview it. So we can
do that. And as you can see for grass
and dirt tile set, this is the 15 tile.
So this is one, two, three, four, etc.
It goes 15 tiles. This is what we're
going to use to export it to go dot
because we're going to use a plugin
called dual grid tiles which makes it so
easy to make a tile map in go. So, I'm
going to export this grass and dirt tile
to set and this grass and water tile set
and we're going to create a small map
with that. So, let's do export as tile
set 15 grass and dirt. Boom. Then export
as tile grass and water.
Okay, so I'm here in go dot. I already
made a 2D project. Just in case you
haven't set this up, go to project
settings. Scroll down to rendering.
Click textures.
And here where it says default texture
filter, click nearest just so your pixel
art can be crisp. So you're going to
search dual grid go dot on Google and
you're going to scroll a little bit
until you find the GitHub link.
for the Tableau Gilla tile map duel. So,
this plugin allows you to make pretty
nice and smooth rule tiles or auto tiles
with this 15 tile setup. And I'm going
to show you just how to import it and do
it really quickly. We're also going to
have the link of this below in the
description, but if you want, you can
always search it in Google. So the first
thing you're going to do here in the
GitHub is click this code button and
download it as a zip. Now that you've
downloaded that as a zip, you can
uncompress it, get to the folder, and
you will see this add-ons folder. Here
in the add-ons folder, you can see the
actual plugin, which is talap duel. In
our project or in my project, I already
made an add-ons folder, but if you don't
have an add-ons folder, you can just
drag and drop the full add-ons folder to
your project. If you do have an add-ons
folder, you can just drag and drop the
tile map duel to the add-ons folder. And
as you can see, I have the tile map dual
folder right here with the add-ons. And
now that you've imported the plugin, you
go to project project settings, plugins,
and you got to enable the tile map duel.
Now that you've enabled that, now start
making the tile map. Let's import our
tile sets. I'm going to drag them into
my tutorial folder.
And here you can see the two tile sets.
And now we're going to create a new tile
map dual node in our scene. So we click
create.
Here we have the tile map duel. And the
next thing we have to do is create a
tile set. So here in the tile set, we
create a new tile set. Here we have the
tile map and the tile set tabs. Now we
go to the tile set tab and we drag our
grasser tile set to this box here. It
asks you if you want it to automatically
create the tiles and we can click yes.
And here it automatically cut it up
perfectly. Now if you go to the tile map
tab and you go to terrains you can see
you have the two terrains already set
up. You can start drawing your map. Here
I'm drawing a little bit of the grass.
Now if I click here I can draw the
dirts. Now what do we do with this tile
set right? So same thing we go to tile
set to the tile set tab. We drag the
grass and water tile set. Click yes and
we can go to tile map and we can just
draw water. Look at that. So we can
basically either have full field of
grass, right? Or we can have an ocean or
a lake or whatever and a small island,
right? We can make an island right here.
Maybe a little bigger. And we can start
drawing some dirt paths. We can also
draw some water inside. Have some little
lakes or rivers, right? and make it like
connect to the ocean. You can get
creative here. Also, we can do paths,
etc. I think this is pretty powerful.
You can really start making maps
quickly. You can even maybe go and make
a house and put it here. Let's try that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
make a tile set here in a sprite out of
these two tile sets or out of this layer
basically.
And I'm going to convert to tile map
16x6.
And there we have the tile map.
So now let's expand this image to let's
say 300 by 300.
Now I'm just going to paint a little bit
of a map just to have some context right
for the model. Now I'm going to go to
the map tool and I'm going to go to
extend map. And here we are going to
inpaint wherever we want the house. So
I'm going to do a brush.
I'm going to paint on the in painting
layer and I'm going to paint some nice
area for a house. There we go. Here I'm
going to describe it. I'm just going to
say a house. Let's do high top down.
Let's do selective outline basic shading
low detail. So 16 by 16. And we're doing
use selection tool to select painting
area. So we're going to select this area
like so. As you can see, here's our
inpainted area. And now I'm going to do
the output method to new layer with
changes. Let's click generate. I'm going
to hide the inpainting layer just so we
can see. And there we have a nice little
house perfectly consistent with the
style of the tiles. It even gives some
shadows, but you can of course remove
that. So how would I export this? I
would hide the other layers and I would
just come here and delete the
background. Right. Boom. And there we
have it. We have a little house. Of
course, we can make the canvas size
smaller. So, we can make it, I don't
know, 64x 64. Center it and ready to
ship. We can export it or we can import
it to our project and just drag it to
our map. And there we have it. We have a
nice house and a nice little map. You
can of course always go back to a sprite
and fix your sprites, which is always a
recommended thing to do. Or you can try
to do new generations with this as a
base. So we can maybe go to extend map
again and one more time using the
selection tool, we select and click
generate. I'm going to try to make a
farmhouse this time. And there we have
it. Another really nice farmhouse,
keeping the style consistent with the
map every single time. And of course,
you can try to do other things like
trees. Let's try that. So, we could
imprite
the description, maybe a oak tree, and
select this. Or we could even select the
house as well, just so it has more
context of the map. And click generate.
And there we have it. a really cool tree
fitting the map. If you like this video,
make sure to leave a like, comment down
below what you would like to see next,
share this video with your friends, and
don't forget to subscribe and hit that
notification bell so you don't miss any
of our videos. Thanks for watching. I'll
catch you in the next